Copy OSS tracing content to Enterprise 1.9 (#3466)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/monitor/logs.md

#### Initial opening of data files

The `tsdb_open` operation traces include all events related to the initial opening of the `tsdb_store`.

#### Retention policy shard deletions

The `retention.delete_check` operation includes all shard deletions related to the retention policy.

#### TSM snapshotting in-memory cache to disk

The `tsm1_cache_snapshot` operation represents the snapshotting of the TSM in-memory cache to disk.

#### TSM compaction strategies

The `tsm1_compact_group` operation includes all trace log entries related to TSM compaction strategies and displays the related TSM compaction strategy keys:

- **tsm1\_strategy**: level or full
- **tsm1\_level**: 1, 2, or 3
- **tsm\_optimize**: true or false

#### Series file compactions

The `series_partition_compaction` operation includes all trace log entries related to series file compactions.

####  Continuous query execution (if logging enabled)

The `continuous_querier_execute` operation includes all continuous query executions, if logging is enabled.

#### TSI log file compaction

> The `tsi1_compact_log_file`

Author: ```suggestion
The `tsi1_compact_log_file` operation includes all trace log entries related to log file compactions.
```

All operation traces include consistent starting and ending log entries, with the same message (`msg`) describing the operation (e.g., "TSM compaction"), but adding the appropriate `op_event` context (either `start` or `end`).
For an example, see [Finding all trace log entries for an InfluxDB operation](#finding-all-trace-log-entries-for-an-influxdb-operation).

**Example:** `trace_id=06R0P94G000`

#### Operation keys

The following operation keys identify an operation's name, the start and end timestamps, and the elapsed execution time.

##### `op_name`
Unique identifier for an operation.
You can filter on all operations of a specific name.

**Example:** `op_name=tsm1_compact_group`

##### `op_event`
Specifies the start and end of an event.
The two possible values, `(start)` or `(end)`, are used to indicate when an operation started or ended.
For example, you can grep by values in `op_name` AND `op_event` to find all starting operation log entries.
For an example of this, see [Finding all starting log entries](#finding-all-starting-operation-log-entries).

**Example:** `op_event=start`

##### `op_elapsed`

> Amount of time the operation spent executing.
> Logged with the ending trace log entry.
> Time unit displayed depends on how much time has elapsed -- if it was seconds, it will be suffixed with `s`.
> Valid time units are `ns`, `µs`, `ms`, and `s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of the operation execution.
Logged with the ending trace log entry.
Valid duration units are `ns`, `µs`, `ms`, and `s`.
```

> **Example:** `op_elapsed=0.352ms`

Reviewer: This doesn't look like a valid duration (as Flux/InfluxDB generally parses them, but that may be something unique to the tracing data format. I'm not sure. I would expect this to be `op_elapsed=352ms` or `op_elapsed=352µs` (the equivalent of `0.325ms`). Duration values typically don't support fractional numbers.

> **Example:** `op_elapsed=0.352ms`

Author: ```suggestion
**Example:** `op_elapsed=352ms`
```

#### Log identifier context key

The log identifier key (`log_id`) lets you easily identify _every_ log entry for a single execution of an `influxd` process.
There are other ways a log file could be split by a single execution, but the consistent `log_id` eases the searching of log aggregation services.

**Example:** `log_id=06QknqtW000`

#### Database context keys

`db_instance`: Database name

`db_rp`: Retention policy name

`db_shard_id`: Shard identifier

`db_shard_group` Shard group identifier

### Tooling

Here are a couple of popular tools available for processing and filtering log files output in `logfmt` or `json` formats.

#### hutils

> The [hutils](https://blog.heroku.com/hutils-explore-your-structured-data-logs), provided by Heroku, is a collection of command line utilities for working with logs with `logfmt` encoding, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [hutils](https://blog.heroku.com/hutils-explore-your-structured-data-logs) utility collection, provided by Heroku, provides tools for working with `logfmt`-encoded logs, including:
```

> * `lcut`: Extracts values from a `logfmt` trace based on a specified field name.
> * `lfmt`: Prettifies `logfmt` lines as they emerge from a stream, and highlights their key sections.
> * `ltap`: Accesses messages from log providers in a consistent way to allow easy parsing by other utilities that operate on `logfmt` traces.
> * `lviz`: Visualizes `logfmt` output by building a tree out of a dataset combining common sets of key-value pairs into shared parent nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **lcut**: Extracts values from a `logfmt` trace based on a specified field name.
- **lfmt**: Prettifies `logfmt` lines as they emerge from a stream, and highlights their key sections.
- **ltap**: Accesses messages from log providers in a consistent way to allow easy parsing by other utilities that operate on `logfmt` traces.
- **lviz**: Visualizes `logfmt` output by building a tree out of a dataset combining common sets of key-value pairs into shared parent nodes.
```

#### lnav (Log File Navigator)

The [lnav (Log File Navigator)](http://lnav.org) is an advanced log file viewer useful for watching and analyzing your log files from a terminal.
The lnav viewer provides a single log view, automatic log format detection, filtering, timeline view, pretty-print view, and querying logs using SQL.

### Operations

The following operations, listed by their operation name (`op_name`) are traced in InfluxDB internal logs and available for use without changes in logging level.

#### Initial opening of data files

> The `tsdb_open` operation traces include all events related to the initial opening of the `tsdb_store`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tsdb_open` operation traces include all events related to the initial opening of the `tsdb_store`.
```

#### Retention policy shard deletions

The `retention.delete_check` operation includes all shard deletions related to the retention policy.

#### TSM snapshotting in-memory cache to disk

The `tsm1_cache_snapshot` operation represents the snapshotting of the TSM in-memory cache to disk.

#### TSM compaction strategies

The `tsm1_compact_group` operation includes all trace log entries related to TSM compaction strategies and displays the related TSM compaction strategy keys:

> * `tsm1_strategy`: `level` | `full`
> * `tsm1_level`: `1` | `2` | `3`
> * `tsm1_optimize`: `true` | `false`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **tsm1\_strategy**: level or full
- **tsm1\_level**: 1, 2, or 3
- **tsm\_optimize**: true or false
```

#### Series file compactions

The `series_partition_compaction` operation includes all trace log entries related to series file compactions.

####  Continuous query execution (if logging enabled)

The `continuous_querier_execute` operation includes all continuous query executions, if logging is enabled.

#### TSI log file compaction

> The `tsi1_compact_log_file`

Reviewer: Missing a description here.

#### TSI level compaction

The `tsi1_compact_to_level` operation includes all trace log entries for TSI level compactions.

### Tracing examples

#### Finding all trace log entries for an InfluxDB operation

In the example below, you can see the log entries for all trace operations related to a "TSM compaction" process.
Note that the initial entry shows the message "TSM compaction (start)" and the final entry displays the message "TSM compaction (end)".

> \[Note: Log entries were grepped using the `trace_id` value and then the specified key values were displayed using `lcut` (an hutils tool).\]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% note %}}
 Log entries were grepped using the `trace_id` value and then the specified key values were displayed using `lcut` (an `hutils` tool).
 {{% /note %}}\]
```
